---
title: Overview
---

# Overview

## Why use this tool

The machine image pipelines implement industry's best practices and include out of the box functionality which can be included in customer pipelines. For example, server testing, compliance scanning, etc.

## Machine Images

The framework supports Amazon Machine Images and Docker Images.

### Machine Image Pipelines

The machine image pipelines provide building blocks for machine image creation. 

The machine image pipelines are developed using GIT projects (generated by the pipeline generator) and Jenkins jobs.

The pipeline projects implement the git-flow branching model. The `master` branch always has the latest released code.

### Machine Image Pipeline Lifecycle

The goal of machine image pipelines is to create tested and hardened machine images.

The image creation process consists of:
1. `build` creates an AMI or a docker image
2. `test` run tests on a temporary EC2 instance created from the AMI or a temporary container created from the docker image 
3. `deliver` creates AMIs in the configured AWS accounts or publishes the docker image

The machine image `deliver` process performs certain actions depending on the image type:
- For AMIs, it will produce AMIs in the configured AWS accounts.
- For Docker images, it will publish the docker images into the private Docker repository. 

## Jenkins Pipelines for Machine Images

Machine image projects are usually developed on a custom git branch, tested using Jenkins `ad-hoc` job, and released using the project `develop` branch. 

Jenkins pipelines provide capabilities to execute pipelines (i.e. `build` and `test`) from several GIT branches (usually `ad-hoc` and `develop`) and to `release` the project from the project's `develop` branch. 

The project configuration determines whether we get an AMI or a docker image.

It is a general practice have `AdHoc`, `Develop` and `Release` jobs for each machine image pipeline:
- `AdHoc` builds and tests machine images from any branch. 
- `Develop` only builds and tests machine images from the `develop` branch. 
- `Release` builds, tests and delivers machine images from the `develop` branch. Merges the release to the `master` branch.

